# CS50_final_project The great ultrarunning quiz
This is final project for HarvardX CS50 Intro to Computer Science.
#### Video Demo:  [https://youtu.be/0XdQ9k8LJ-k]

## Description

#### Structure and languages
The project is a website that consists of a home page (index.html) and two pages (easy.html and hard.html) that each feature a quiz with multiple choice questions. It contains HTML, CSS and JavaScript. All three pages contain the same header and footer but with different images that are soruced from picsum.photos. Navigation from the homepage to the quizzes is possible from the navigation bar as well by clicking on buttons in the content section. From quizes the user return to the homepage using the navigation bar.

#### Styles
Only CSS is used for styling. The layout is done using CSS grid and contained in the styles.css file. The layout of distinct elements such as the quiz options on the homepage and each quiz question is made using the CSS grid. Element classes that can be reused throughout the website are styled in the global.css file. Specific quiz element class styeles are in quiz-elements.css. Header and footer formatting is separated in header_footer.css. I tried to stick to BEM when naming the classes. The file reset.css resets all the default styles. This file is sourced from https://meyerweb.com/.

#### Script
File main.js contains generateQuiz function which creates the quiz and checks user's answers for correctness. It takes the array of questions, the quiz container, resultsContainer, submitButton, reloadButton as parameters.

Inside the generateQuiz function showQuestions function loops through the questions array and creates question and answer html elements. I use the JS .forEach method to loop through arrays. It creates a radio button and a label for each answer and finally puts them together in a div. The question is displayed in another div above the answers.

Function showResults provides that upon clicking the ** submit button ** answers of correctly answered questions turn green but if the answer is wrong they turn red. It loops through all questions and first determines if an answer has been selected. If none of the radio buttons is checked, it displays a message telling the user that they did not answer the question. Then it checks if the selecteed answer is the same as the value of correctAnswer in the question ojbject. Then, it displays text that tells whether the answer is correct or wrong. This text is a span element generated by function called addAlert that takes as parameters the html elements where to add the span and the text of the span as a string.

Overall results are displayed at the bottom. showResults also hides the submit button and displays a button "Try again" which reloads the page and scrolls up to the top of the page.

The generateQuiz function is exported at the end of the main.js file, so I could use it in separate scripts for both quizzes. The script-easy.js file contains an array with all the easy questions for the first quiz, selects html elements form the document and calls the generateQuiz function. Script_hard.js does the same for the hard.html page.pset